Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m
going to explain a fantasy film called
“Miss Peregrine's home for peculiar children,”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
At the beginning of the movie, we see a teenager
named Jake Portman working in a grocery store.
Jake gets a call from his dad, asking him to be
at his grandfather Abe’s home. Abe is a patient
with dementia and needs to be taken care of at all
times. His co-worker offers to give him a ride.
When he reaches home, he sees his grandfather
missing. Jake and his co-worker go around
looking for him. After a while, he finds Abe
on the ground with both his eyeballs missing.
Before Jake can react, Abe grabs his hand,
asking him to go back to September 3rd, 1943,
using a postcard and meet a bird. Suddenly
Abe stops talking and takes his last breath.
Jake freezes in shock. Just then, he
notices a massive monster in the dark.
The monster goes away when his colleague
accidentally shoots in his direction.
Although Jake believes that Abe’s final words were
just gibberish, the monster he saw that day has
a huge impact on his mental health. It is now a
month after Abe’s death. Jake has started going to
therapy. He tells his therapist about stories Abe
used to tell him when he was a child. Abe always
talked about a home for special children somewhere
in Cairnholm, an island off the coast of Wales.
The home was run by a strict but caring lady named
Peregrine, who could turn into a bird. There lived
children with unique qualities, the ones who
didn’t fit in the normal society, like Bronwyn and
Victor, who had superhuman strength, Hugh, who had
bees living inside him, and Emma, who could float.
Abe even had pictures of the children he talked
about. Jake believed his stories for years until
he talked about them in a middle school class
presentation. His classmates made fun of him
for believing such absurd ideas. So Jake angrily
accused Abe of lying, and from that day onwards,
Abe never mentioned the children home. The
therapist thinks that Jake is having a hard
time separating Abe’s fantasies from reality. That
is why he hallucinated the monster that day.
Later, when Jake returns home, his aunt gives
him a book she had found in Abe’s belongings.
Inside the book is a postcard that has Miss
Peregrine’s name and the children’s home address
written on it. Jake shows it to his therapist in
the following session. She suggests he visit the
place so he and Abe can have a proper closure.
The very next day, Jake and his father leave
for Wales. The two finally reach the town
and check into an old hotel. Jake goes to
the children’s home to find it fully destroyed.
When he returns, a man tells him that in 1943,
a Nazi missile landed on the children’s home
and destroyed it, killing everyone inside.
The following day, Jake goes back to the
home and looks around when suddenly, a girl
appears in front of him. Startled, he starts
to run, falls down, and goes unconscious.
When he regains consciousness, he is being carried
by Bronwyn, the girl from his grandfather’s story
who has superhuman strength. He sees other
characters from the story in front of him.
Jake is shocked but delighted to see that the
stories are true. Emma, the girl who can float,
tells Jake that they are sent by Miss Peregrine
to bring him into the loop. They take him inside a
cave, but Jake gets nervous and runs back to his
hotel. There, he comes across unfamiliar faces
who ask him who he is. It turns out that after
entering the cave, he traveled back in time,
to September 3, 1943. The people in the hotel
think that he is a spy and are about to kill
him when the children from earlier save
him. They take him to the children’s home,
where he finally meets Miss Peregrine. Inside, a
girl named Olive is boiling tea with her hands,
showing that she can create fire with them. Miss
Peregrine reveals to him that the children's
home was established to accommodate people born
with unique qualities called the peculiars.
Such unique qualities are acquired as recessive
genes and can show itself in any generation.
Children’s homes like this are spread throughout
the world to protect the peculiars from normal
people. Every children's home is run by a breed of
peculiar called the Ymbrynes. Ymbrynes can freeze
time and repeat it, and also shapeshift into
birds. Hence, Miss Peregrine, being a Ymbryne,
resets the time every day. The people of the
children's home have been re-living September 3rd,
1943, for as long as they can remember. Abe used
to live in the children’s home when he was little,
and the children Jake met earlier were his
grandfather’s friends. Since they lived in a loop,
they haven’t aged. Jake is shocked at the
revelation. He asks Miss Peregrine what
Abe’s power was, but she dismisses him.
While roaming around the house, Jake meets a
peculiar named Enoch, whose ability is that he can
make the dead people and inanimate objects come to
life as his puppet. At supper, it is revealed
that Abe left the children’s home to join the
army. He also finds out that Emma used to be in
love with Abe when he was around. After that,
everyone sits down to watch a movie. A peculiar
named Horace can project his dreams onto the wall
and can also dream of the future. They watch
Horace’s dream like a movie. After the movie,
everyone goes outside to watch Peregrine reset
time. Jake watches in awe as she stops the missile
from being dropped in the house and resets
the time to September 3rd again. Jake then
finds a letter written to Miss Peregrine by his
grandfather and keeps it with him. Emma takes
Jake to the cave to get him out of the loop.
As they walk, an injured Ymbryne bird lands in
front of them. Emma takes the bird and goes back
to the house as Jake comes out of the loop.
When he is back in the hotel, Jake reads
the letter he had stolen. In the letter,
Abe warns Peregrine of someone named Barron, who
has been trying to harm peculiars of another loop.
The following day, Jake’s dad takes
him to a beach to watch birds. There,
they meet an Ornithologist named John. Jake’s dad,
who watches birds as a hobby, is annoyed by John,
so they return to the hotel. Jake waits for his
father to fall asleep and goes back into the loop.
He asks Miss Peregrine about Barron. But Miss
Peregrine is mad at him for being intrusive and
doesn’t answer his question. Enoch takes him to
a peculiar named Victor, but Jake is shocked to
see Victor’s dead body lying on a bed. Then,
Enoch places a heart into his body and makes
him his puppet, demonstrating his power. When they
later go on a walk, he asks Emma about Barron.
To answer his question, Emma takes him under
the sea and into the remains of a shrunken ship.
She uses her power to manipulate air and makes
the chamber water-free. She then hands him a box
and claims that it belonged to Abe. Inside is a
map of every loop of the world and pictures of
some peculiars. One of them is Barron, the leader
of a group of bad peculiars called the Hollows.
She tells him that Abe left the children’s home
to hunt them, but couldn’t. Hollows look for the
peculiar kids and kill them. Only Peregrine knows
what their real motive is. Emma then takes Jake to
watch Peregrine killing a monster, similar to the
one Jake saw when Abe died. Emma says that no one
other than Abe and Jake can see the monster. Even
Peregrine is using her time manipulation skills to
kill it. It turns out that Jake is also a peculiar
like his grandfather, and both their skill is that
they can see the invisible monsters.
When they are back in the children's home,
Peregrine tells Jake about Hollows and their
origin. Hollows were regular peculiars who
were tired of living in loops. They believed
that harnessing the essence of Ymbryne’s
powers would make them immortal, and they
could live outside the loop without aging.
So, they abducted a Ymbryne and conducted an
experiment. However, the experiment failed,
turning the Hollows into invisible monsters.
To go back to their human form, they had to
feed on peculiars’ eyes. Hollows started abducting
peculiar children for their eyes. Barron and some
of his friends regained their human forms, but
their eyes remained milky white. Some monsters
are still looking for children’s eyes to feed on.
As she completes telling the story, Miss Avocet
regains consciousness. She is the Ymbryne
that Emma had found in the cave earlier.
Miss Avocet tells them that the children’s
home she was a caretaker of has been completely
destroyed by the monsters who killed all her
children for their eyes. Barron is planning to
conduct the experiment again, this time by using
more Ymbrynes. His next target is Peregrine’s
children’s home. Hearing this, Miss Peregrine
quickly asks the kids to pack their bags.
She wants to change the loop so they can be
safer. Emma asks Jake to come with them to
the other loop. However, Jake denies it and
goes back to the island, exiting the loop.
When he reaches the beach, he sees a crowd
gathering around a dead body. His dad and the
Ornithologist John are there too. Jake notices the
dead body’s eyes have been taken. He realizes that
the Hollows are already here and runs towards the
cave to warn Miss Peregrine. John offers Jake’s
dad to bring him back and follows him. He enters
the cave behind Jake. It is revealed that John
is actually Barron, who has been using his
shapeshifting abilities to disguise himself. He
reveals that he also disguised as Jake’s therapist
to get Jake to the island and find the location
of the loop through him. He then threatens
Jake to take him to the children’s home.
Miss Peregrine is shocked to see Barron at
her door. With no way out, she offers to
go with Barron if he leaves the children out of
this. After the two leave, Miss Avocet and Jake
close all the doors and windows to the house and
gather weapons. Since Barron knows where they are,
he can send his monster friends to hunt
the children for their eyes. Suddenly,
an invisible monster attacks Miss Avocet when
Jake is not around. It kills the poor lady but
is injured by Jake right after. Everyone then runs
to the attic and escapes through a tree branch.
Since Peregrine is not here to restart the
loop, the day changes to September four, and
the nazi missile drops on the house. Thankfully,
everyone is safe. When they are out of the loop,
they plan to go to the black loop, where Barron
is conducting the experiment using Miss Peregrine
and the other Ymbrynes. They get on a ship
and continue the journey using Abe’s map.
They finally get to a carnival. Jake and Emma
enter the black loop, which takes them back
to 2016. They see Barron, his friends, and some
monsters inside. Jake uses Emma to provoke Barron,
making him send the monsters and two of
his men outside to kill the children.
But the children have already planned a way
to defeat them. They throw snow at those men,
revealing the shape of the monsters. Meanwhile,
Enoch makes a bunch of skeletons his puppets
and sends them to fight the monsters. Then, the
children make their way to Barron and his friends.
They fight them using their unique powers and
manage to defeat everyone except for Barron.
Jake releases the Ymbrynes from the cages,
including Miss Peregrine, but they cannot
help him since they are injured. Now, Barron and
Jake stand face to face when suddenly, Barron
shapeshifts into Jake. Emma and Enoch come inside
and are confused about which is the real Jake.
They point a crossbow at them, as both try to
prove they are the real Jake. Just then, a monster
enters the room. Jake sees it and informs the two.
The monster mistakes Barrow for Jake and attacks
him, sucking his eyes and killing him. Finally,
Jake kills the monster, and everyone is safe.
Before the time loop closes, Jake says goodbye
to the children as they exit and return to their
ship in 1943, while he stays in 2016. Jake travels
to his home in Florida to see Abe is still alive.
It turns out Barron's death at the beginning
of 2016 erased his presence in Florida later
on. Jake is delighted and tells Abe everything
that has happened. Abe asks Jake to go back to
Emma as she is waiting for him. Jake takes
his advice and travels the world, going into
many loops to look for Emma and the others. He
finally finds them on the ship, still traveling.
Jake tells Emma that he loves her and the two
finally kiss. The movie ends as Miss Peregrine
flies above the ship, overlooking the kids.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave
a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.